DOCS-12083-mqtt3-clientid-EDITORIAL-kt (#1622)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: mqtt3/1.0/modules/ROOT/edits/mqtt3-connector-client-id.adoc

> = Set a Client ID with MQTT Connector

Reviewer: I'm just curious: do you choose to use "set" vs. "configure" depending on context?
This might be an interesting question to ask the team.

Reviewer: Be sure to refer to the three tasks that are contained below as part of setting a client ID.
Beware of including too much conceptual information that might belong in a concept topic about client IDs.

Client IDs are important for MQTT because they identify a connection to an MQTT broker. Moreover, they identify a specific device or client,

> and it can be useful in terms of traceability to set a client ID that clearly identifies a device's connection to the broker.

Reviewer: I think this might be a long way of saying...
```suggestion
To improve traceability, set a client ID that clearly identifies the connection of a specific device or client to an MQTT broker.
```

> MQTT brokers usually implement a mechanism that closes an old connection if a new connection request with the same client ID as the existing (old) connection is received and then accepts the new connection. MQTT brokers employ this mechanism to prevent situations such as TCP connections reaching a half-open or invalid state due to a crash in one of the communication ends, which is undesirable. The broker assumes the new incoming connection to be valid, closes the older connection, and continues using the newly established connection.

Reviewer: Here's another minimalism suggestion (as most of the edits here are): 

Can we omit "implement a mechanism that" and simply state that "MQTT brokers close..."?
Why introduce both "old" and "existing"?
Why repeat "implement/employ a/this mechanism"?
Why state the obvious, that invalidity or a crash is undesireable?
The final sentence holds the main point.

Reviewer: My suggestion
```suggestion
If an MQTT broker receives a new connection request with the same client ID as an existing connection, it assumes that the existing connection is compromised, closes that connection, and continues using the newly established connection.
```

Reviewer: These suggested rewordings are just samples of how you can minimize and clarify without sacrificing meaning. It is a skill to be developed, and I don't mean to reword your text or insult your knowledge in any way. I think you know this, but I just wanted to say it again.
Let me know if these rewordings don't help you.

> The client takeover mechanism can become a problem if you want to deploy an application in a cluster, and still provide an explicit client ID that identifies the client. Anypoint Connector for MQTT (MQTT Connector) provides client ID generators that help you set a static client ID, set a client ID with a dynamic component to adjust to different deployment scenarios, or define your custom client ID generator.

Reviewer: Is the "client takeover mechanism" the situation described just above? If so, consider working that phrase into the prev. paragraph.

Reviewer: This paragraph confuses me a bit, because we have not defined explicit, static, or dynamic IDs.
Also, we have not made a distinction between MQTT ID generators and custom generators.
And...how does the first sentence, about the cluster problem, relate to the second, about different types of client IDs and generators?

Reviewer: Finally...the focus on this introduction to the three tasks that follow should clearly identify those three tasks and why the audience wants/needs to perform them:

- Configure custom expression generator (what is an expression? Not mentioned in intro, just ID....)
- Configure random suffix generator (not mentioned at all in the intro)
- Configure custom ID generator (how is this diff. from the first task?)

Reviewer: The intro does not clarify that there are three generators that you can configure, vs. whatever MQTT does without your configuration.

== Configure the Client ID Custom Expression Generator

> This generator enables you to set a static string prefix and an expression as a suffix. Both parameters are optional but you must provide at least one of them in order to generate a client ID. If you do not provide any parameter, an `INVALID_CLIENT_ID` exception is thrown.

Reviewer: So, the custom expression generator (or you?) creates a (custom?) client ID consisting of either or both of:

- A static string prefix (what does "static" mean, and for what body string is this the prefix?)
- A (custom?) expression as a suffix (do we need to clarify "string" vs. "expression"? To what body string is this the suffix?)

<opt prefix>body<opt suffix> (but you need at least one of prefix or suffix?)

Reviewer: So, are we saying that the custom expression generator creates a (random) client ID that the user customizes by adding either or both of a prefix (prepended) and a suffix (appended), turning the ID into an expression?

Reviewer: Maybe we should begin by calling the prefix and suffix "parameters" that act as a prefix and suffix to <what?>

> In the following example, the configuration takes the client ID string and appends the current date, that generates a client ID similar to `principality-123-2020-09-03`:

Reviewer: This intro makes it sound like the configuration does something, but don't we mean that you configure it to do something?

Reviewer: This text uses "client ID string"; all previous text mentions only "client ID," so maybe we need to clarify from the beginning that a client ID comprises "string+prepended parameter and/or appended parameter"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, you configure the client ID string to include the current date at the end, generating a client ID similar to `principality-123-2020-09-03`:
```

. In Studio, navigate to the *Global Elements* tab.
. Click *Create*.
. In the filter box, type `mqtt` and select *MQTT3 Config*.
. Click *OK*.

> . In the *MQTT3 Config* window, for *Connection*, select *MQTT3 URL Connection*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *MQTT3 Config* > *Connection*, select *MQTT3 URL Connection*.
```

. For *Client id generator*, select *Client id custom expression generator*.
. Set the following fields:
+
* *Client ID*: `principality-123-`

> * *Custom Client ID Suffix*: `#[%dw 2.0 output text/plain --- now() as String {format: 'y-MM-dd'}]"`

Reviewer: Is there a field for prefix as well? Should we instruct the user to leave it blank?

> * *Username*: `mosquitto`

Reviewer: Do you mean "mosquito"?

* *Password*: `password`
* *URL*: `tcp://broker.hivemq.com:1883`
[start=7]
. Click *OK*.

image::mqtt3-expression-generator.png[Client ID Custom Expression Generator configuration in Global Element Properties window]

> In the Configuration XML editor, the `<mqtt3:client-id-custom-expression-generator>` and `customClientIdSuffix` configurations look like these:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Configuration XML editor, the `<mqtt3:client-id-custom-expression-generator>` and `customClientIdSuffix` configurations look like this:
```
...because what follows is a single depiction of the two things. Let me know if this is confusing.

[source,xml,linenums]
----
    <mqtt3:config name="MQTT_ClientID_Static_Prefix_And_Expression_Suffix_Config">
        <mqtt3:connection username="mosquitto" password="password" url="tcp://broker.hivemq.com:1883"/>
            <mqtt3:client-id-generator>
                <mqtt3:client-id-custom-expression-generator clientId="principality-123-" customClientIdSuffix="#[%dw 2.0 output text/plain --- now() as String {format: 'y-MM-dd'}]"/>
            </mqtt3:client-id-generator>
            <mqtt3:connection-options maxInFlight="60" cleanSession="true" />
        </mqtt3:form-connection>
    </mqtt3:config>
----

> You can also specify an expression as a client ID. In the following example, dynamic configurations generate new connections for each new expression value:

Reviewer: an expression as opposed to...what? a string? Is this clear to your audience?

[source,xml,linenums]
----
    <mqtt3:config name="MQTT_ClientID_Only_Expression_Suffix_Config">
        <mqtt3:form-connection username="aziraphale" password="principality" protocol="TCP" host="127.0.0.1" port="${mosquitto.port1}">
            <mqtt3:client-id-generator>
                <mqtt3:client-id-custom-expression-generator customClientIdSuffix="#['smart-bentley-' ++ randomInt(1000) as String]"/>
            </mqtt3:client-id-generator>
            <mqtt3:connection-options maxInFlight="60" cleanSession="true" />
        </mqtt3:form-connection>
    </mqtt3:config>
----

> In the following example, the configuration sets a simple string as the client ID, that generates a static client ID `principality-123`:

Reviewer: ditto suggestions made for Line 14

[source,xml,linenums]
----
    <mqtt3:config name="MQTT_Static_ClientID_Config">
        <mqtt3:form-connection username="aziraphale" password="principality" protocol="TCP" host="127.0.0.1" port="${mosquitto.port1}">
            <mqtt3:client-id-generator>
                <mqtt3:client-id-custom-expression-generator clientId="principality-123"/>
            </mqtt3:client-id-generator>
            <mqtt3:connection-options maxInFlight="60" cleanSession="true" />
        </mqtt3:form-connection>
    </mqtt3:config>
----

> 

Reviewer: BREAK to commit

Reviewer: RESUME

== Configure the Client ID Random Suffix Generator

> This generator enables you to set an optional static string prefix and adds a random UUID as a suffix. If you provide a static prefix, it will be separated from the random UUID suffix with a `-` character.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This generator enables you to set an optional static string prefix and adds a random UUID as a suffix. If you provide a static prefix, it is separated from the random UUID suffix with a `-` character.
```

> In the following example, you configure the generator to generate a client ID similar to `smart-bentley-123-0f321a85-fddf-429f-ba89-26d201db9777` but each new connection has its own randomly generated UUID suffix:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, you configure the generator to generate a client ID similar to `smart-bentley-123-0f321a85-fddf-429f-ba89-26d201db9777`, but each new connection has its own randomly generated UUID suffix:
```

. In Studio, navigate to the *Global Elements* tab.
. Click *Create*.
. In the filter box, type `mqtt` and select *MQTT3 Config*.
. Click *OK*.

> . In the *MQTT3 Config* window, for *Connection*, select *MQTT3 URL Connection*.

Reviewer: Option:
```suggestion
. In the *MQTT3 Config* > *Connection*, select *MQTT3 URL Connection*.
```

. For *Client id generator*, select *Client id random suffix generator*.
. Set the following fields:
+
* *Client ID*: `smart-bentley-123`

> * *Username*: `mosquitto`

Reviewer: mosquito?

* *Password*: `password`

> * *URL*: `tcp://127.0.0.1:${mosquitto.port1}`

Reviewer: mosquito?
Please search for and replace all if you decide to change; I'll stop marking.

        <mqtt3:connection username="mosquitto" password="password"  url="tcp://127.0.0.1:${mosquitto.port1}">
            <mqtt3:client-id-generator>
                <mqtt3:client-id-random-suffix-generator clientId="smart-bentley-123" />
            </mqtt3:client-id-generator>
            <mqtt3:connection-options maxInFlight="60" cleanSession="true"  />
        </mqtt3:connection>
    </mqtt3:config>
----

You can also omit the client ID prefix, in which case the generator assigns a random UUID as your client ID. In the following example, you configure the generator to generate a client ID similar to `0f321a85-fddf-429f-ba89-26d201db9777`:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
    <mqtt3:config name="MQTT_Static_Prefix_And_Random_Suffix_Config">
        <mqtt3:connection username="mosquitto" password="mosquitto"  url="tcp://127.0.0.1:${mosquitto.port1}">
            <mqtt3:client-id-generator>
                <mqtt3:client-id-random-suffix-generator />
            </mqtt3:client-id-generator>
            <mqtt3:connection-options maxInFlight="60" cleanSession="true"  />
        </mqtt3:connection>
    </mqtt3:config>
----

== Configure a Custom Client ID Generator

> You might want to supply your own custom client ID generator. To do so, you must be familiar with the Mule SDK subtypes, and the import and export annotations.

Reviewer: Why? Are there advantages/disadvantages to this approach?

"If <blah blah>, you might want to supply....

In the following example, you configure your own client ID generator:

. Create your own Java connector project.

> . In the pom file of your connector project, add MQTT Connector as a dependency, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the `.pom` file of your connector project, add MQTT Connector as a dependency, for example:
```

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
    <modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>
    <groupId>org.example</groupId>
    <artifactId>mqtt3-extended-connector</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
    <packaging>mule-extension</packaging>
    <name>MQTT Extended Connector</name>

    <parent>
        <groupId>org.mule.extensions</groupId>
        <artifactId>mule-ee-core-modules-parent</artifactId>
    </parent>

    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
            <artifactId>mule4-mqtt3-connector</artifactId>
            <version>1.0.0</version>
            <classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>
----

[start=3]
. Create your connector's definition class, for example:
+
[source,java,linenums]
----
@Xml(prefix = "mqtt3-extended")
@Extension(name = "MQTT3Extended", category = SELECT)
public class MQTT3ExtendedConnector {
}
----

[start=4]

> . In your custom extension, define your implementation for the `ClientIDGenerator` interface, exposed by the MQTT Connector:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In your custom extension, define your implementation for the `ClientIDGenerator` interface, exposed by MQTT Connector.
```

+

> MQTT Connector exposes the `ClientIDGenerator` interface, which only requires that you implement the method `generateClientID()`. At this point, you must import this interface using the `@Import` annotation, which is then exported by MQTT Connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MQTT Connector exposes the `ClientIDGenerator` interface, which requires only that you implement the method `generateClientID()`. At this point, you import this interface using the `@Import` annotation, which is then exported by MQTT Connector.
```

+
[source,java,linenums]
----
@Xml(prefix = "mqtt3-extended")
@Extension(name = "MQTT3Extended", category = SELECT)
@Import(type = ClientIDGenerator.class)
public class MQTT3ExtendedConnector {

}
----

[start=5]
. Define an implementation for the `ClientIDGenerator` interface:
+

[source,java,linenums]
----
@Alias("custom-client-id")
public class MyClientIdGenerator implements ClientIDGenerator {

  /**
   * Client id to be used to identify the connection to the MQTT broker.
   */
  @Parameter
  @DisplayName("Client ID")
  @Optional(defaultValue = "")
  @Expression(NOT_SUPPORTED)
  @ClientId
  protected String clientId;

  private String suffix = "my-custom-suffix";

  /**
   * @return a client ID that results from concatenating the clientId and a randomly generated UUID string.
   */
  @Override
  public String generateClientID() {
    return clientId + (clientId.isEmpty() ? "" : "-") + suffix;
  }
}
----
[start=6]

> . Define the subtype in your connector definition and export your custom implementation:

Reviewer: Here and at Line 180, do not use a colon to lead to further text unless that text is list items. Also use the colon directly before syntax examples, illustrations, and other nonnarrative elements.

+

> To do so, make the previously defined implementation available to the MQTT Connector by defining your custom implementation as a `ClientIDGenerator` subtype in your connector class. Also, export your `MyClientIdGenerator` class using the `@Export` annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do so, make the previously defined implementation available to MQTT Connector by defining your custom implementation as a `ClientIDGenerator` subtype in your connector class. Also, export your `MyClientIdGenerator` class using the `@Export` annotation:
```

+
[source,java,linenums]
----
@Xml(prefix = "mqtt3-extended")
@Extension(name = "MQTT3Extended", category = SELECT)
@Import(type = ClientIDGenerator.class)
@Export(classes = {MyClientIdGenerator.class})
@SubTypeMapping(baseType = ClientIDGenerator.class, subTypes = {MyClientIdGenerator.class})
public class MQTT3ExtendedConnector {

}
----
+

> After you set up your custom connector project, you are ready to access the new implementation from your application using the MQTT Connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you set up your custom connector project, you are ready to access the new implementation from your application using MQTT Connector:
```

[start=7]

> . In Studio, import both your custom connector and MQTT Connector in your application's `pom.xml` file, for example:

Reviewer: We earlier refer to just "pom" file; should that earlier instance be "pom.xml" as well?

							<artifactId>org.eclipse.paho.client.mqttv3</artifactId>
						</sharedLibrary>
					</sharedLibraries>
				</configuration>
			</plugin>
		</plugins>
	</build>

	<dependencies>
		<dependency>
			<groupId>org.mule.connectors</groupId>
			<artifactId>mule-http-connector</artifactId>
			<version>1.5.25</version>
			<classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
		</dependency>
		<dependency>
			<groupId>org.mule.connectors</groupId>
			<artifactId>mule-sockets-connector</artifactId>
			<version>1.2.1</version>
			<classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
		</dependency>
		<dependency>
			<groupId>org.eclipse.paho</groupId>
			<artifactId>org.eclipse.paho.client.mqttv3</artifactId>
			<version>1.2.5</version>
		</dependency>
		<dependency>
		    <groupId>org.example</groupId>
		    <artifactId>mqtt3-extended-connector</artifactId>
		    <version>1.0.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
		    <classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
		</dependency>
		<dependency>
		    <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
		    <artifactId>mule4-mqtt3-connector</artifactId>
		    <version>1.0.0</version>
		    <classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
		</dependency>
	</dependencies>
</project>
----
+

> Now, if you try to create a new MQTT Connector configuration in your application, your custom client ID implementation should be in the list of available client ID generators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you subsequently create a new MQTT Connector configuration in your application, your custom client ID implementation appears in the list of available client ID generators.
```

[start=8]

> . To use your custom ID generator in an MQTT Connector configuration navigate to the *Global Elements* tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To use your custom ID generator in an MQTT Connector configuration, navigate to the *Global Elements* tab.
```

. Click *Create*.
. In the filter box, type `mqtt` and select *MQTT3 Config*.
. Click *OK*.

> . In the *MQTT3 Config* window, for *Connection*, select *MQTT3 URL Connection*.

Reviewer: ditto GLOBAL alternative; I'll not mark in the other PRs, so just make the change globally if you decide it is appropriate.

> . For *Client id generator* select *Custom client id*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. For *Client id generator*, select *Custom client id*.
```

. Set the following fields:
* *Client ID*: `123`.
* *Username*: `mosquitto`.
* *Password*: `password`.

> * *URL*: `tcp://broker.hivemq.com:1883"`.

Reviewer: No periods (GLOBAL)
